let's now talk about what is happening
in the Middle East where the Israeli
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has
reconvened his War cabinet following a
missile and drone attack on Israel by
Iran over the weekend Iran has sought to
justify its attack saying Western
countries should appreciate its
restraint Israel's allies including the
US and the UK urging restraint rather
than retaliation our chief International
correspondent Le duet has the
latest welcome to Jerusalem well the big
question across this region last week
was what will Iran do next and now this
week the same question is being asked
about Israel it's War cabinet met last
night for three hours to deliberate
about uh Israel's response after that
unprecedented attack by Iran in the
early hours of Sunday morning
350 suicide drones cruise missiles and
ballistic missiles and now again today
the war cabinet has convened
No statement yet about what they will do
but reports coming out of the
deliberations so far indicate that there
is a consensus emerging that Israel will
have to retaliate not now but at a time
and in a manner of their own choosing
this kind of tension is reverberating in
capitals around the world including in
New York last night where the UN
Secretary General Antonio gues led a
special meeting of the UN Security
Council warning that the region was on
the edge of an abyss it's one of the few
places where Israeli and Iranian top
diplomats can see each other face to
face Israel underlined that Iran in his
words had crossed all red lines Iran
said its attack was a move of legitimate
self-defense and today Iranian officials
are saying that they acted with
restraint that's not how Israel sees it
or its allies let's just take a look at
all the latest developments with this
report from our Middle East
correspondent yolan
Nell Israel's air defenses called to
action in the early hours on Sunday
fighter jets battled waves of Iranian
drones and missiles fired at Israeli
targets it marked the first time Iran
has attacked Israel directly from its
own soil explosions could be heard
widely including in Jerusalem and Tel
Aviv
Israel says that 99% of more than 300
drones and missiles launched by Iran
were intercepted some of those that got
through hid here in the sensitive never
Team Air Force Base in southern Israel
nearby 7-year-old am Huna was seriously
injured when a missile fragment struck
her
house the children were frightened and
wanted to run away from home and that's
when the Missile hit our house
the Israeli War cabinet met yesterday to
plan its next move one of its members
Benny Gans said Israel would exact a
price from Iran when the time is right
and last night the UN Security Council
met in an emergency meeting following
the attacks Israel called for sanctions
on Iran and reiterated its right to a
response this attack crossed every red
line and Israel reserves the legal right
to retaliate
we are not a frog in boiling water we
are a nation of
lions following such a massive and
direct attack on Israel the entire world
let alone Israel cannot settle for in
action we will defend our
future Iran's ambassador to the UN told
the meeting that its actions which were
in retaliation for a deadly air strike
on its Consulate in Syria were Justified
these countries especially the United
states have shielded Israeli from any
responsibility for the Gaza
Massacre while they have denied Iran
inherent right to self-defense against
the Israeli armed attack on our
diplomatic premises amid Rising tensions
the attacks have received widespread
International
condemnation the scale and nature of
Iran's heinous assault the first direct
attack from Iran on Israeli soil
poses grave risks to the security and
stability of citizens across the Middle
East now world leaders are pressing for
deescalation in a bid for calm in the
region the Middle East is on the
brink the people of the region are
confronting a real danger of a
devastating fullscale
conflict now is the time to diffuse and
deescalate
all eyes are on Israel and how it
responds yolan Nell BBC News
Jerusalem so an a moment of
unprecedented military action a war of
words and intensifying diplomacy even
world powers who normally disagree on
most issues are now sending the same
message the Kremlin in Moscow saying it
was extremely concerned about the
possibility for escalation the French
President Emanuel Macon saying that
everything had to be done to avoid an
conflagration in the Middle East and
this morning Britain's foreign secretary
Lord Cameron has been sending a message
to Israel to see uh its taking down of
Iran's wave of projectiles as a victory
and not to
retaliate I think it's important to be
respectful on these occasions a country
has had a massive attack uh from a
dangerous and malign actor in the region
they will be considering they are
considering the Israeli cabinet has been
uh meeting already to consider that our
advice is don't retaliate you know take
the win recognize Iran has suffered a
double defeat defeat as all the almost
all their weapons were shot down and
defeat because the world can now see
their true nature that the right thing
to do is to Pivot now and look at Hamas
and say they must release the hostages
so we wouldn't be supporting retaliatory
action but we're respectful of other
countries
Lord Cameron well last night the UN
Security Council two members the United
States and the UK condemned Iran's
strike and in the midst of this
criticism Iran has spoken out again
today a foreign Ministry spokesperson
defended Iran's action saying it would
acted in
Restraint instead of making accusations
the Western cont should appreciate the
Islamic Republic of Iran's rest Str and
responsible actions towards the
stability and safety in the
region Western countries should blame
themselves and answer to public opinion
for the measures they have taken against
the seven months of war crimes
committed the view from Iran well for a
very long time Iran prided itself on
what it called strategic patience in
other words not responding immediately
whenever it was provoked or threatened
but in ton now senior military and
political officials are using a new
phrase they call it a new equation to
get some insight into Iran's thinking
we're joined by Muhammad Ali Shabani
he's the editor of amaj media welcome to
BBC News
Muhammad thank you for having
me this sounds like a very dangerous
moment with Iran saying that from now on
there is this new equation that when it
is hit it will hit back immediately is
that how you understand
it those are the precise words of the U
chief commander of the irgc indeed he
stated that not only Iranian Personnel
but any Iranian assets and interests
that may be hit will receive a direct
response from Iran and I think this is a
a reaction more than an action and what
I mean by that is that the April 1
bombing of the Iranian Consulate in
Syria which initiated the uh Iranian
attack that we saw on Israel was a kind
of change in the rules of the game so to
speak the previously diplomatic premises
were off limits and Israel appears to
have wanted to change that what we're
seeing now from Iran side is to say okay
we're going to change the rules of the
game so will we so this is a very
dangerous period because both sides are
trying to lay out new rules of the
game both sides aside from this tit
fortat want to establish a powerful
deterrence in other words to make it
clear to their enemy that they there
will be a cost if they do strike now
there are some observers who say Iran
strengthened its determins by showing
its willingness to send this wave of
missiles and drones but others say it
has weakened it because almost none of
them reached their target how would you
see
it I think there's always two different
ways of looking at what happened uh to
me the operation was carefully
choreographed it was telegraphed in
advance days in advance to Iran's
neighbors to the United States Iran also
made the launches of for instance drones
from its own territory which meant that
Israel had many hours of of forewarning
I think that in a real life uh direct
confrontation which Iran has warned that
he will engage it unless if Israel
continues to take action against Iran
things will be very different there will
be no advanced warning there will be no
choreographing drones probably will not
only be launched from Iran and most
importantly of all Iran's Reg allies
will also participate and in such a
scenario I think very easily a group
such as Hezbollah and Lebanon can
overwhelm Israeli air defenses so I
think what this episode told us all is
that uh the countries which shot down
many of the missiles I think did both
Iran and Israel the faith they've acted
to provide both sides with a faith-
saving way out they allowed Iran to say
that we can claim victory we took action
that was unprecedented can also allow
Israel to say that we also achieved
Victory by shooting down most
I hope that makes
sense and how does Iran see its position
in the region now of course it has its
allies and proxies the so-called axis of
resistance but beyond that it has been
on the telephone repeatedly to foreign
ministers in Saudi Arabia to the United
Arab Emirates how does it see its
positioning
now I mean one major shift is that only
a few years ago countries such as the
ones you mentioned Saudi Arabia and the
UAE would have
welcome a confrontation between Iran
Israel or Iran and the United States um
things are very different now because
partly these countries have initiated
normalization processes with Iran Iran
is very eager to continue that process
so I think there's a mutual desire in
the region among Iran and its Arab
neighbors to lower tensions and here I
think they're joined by the US they're
joined by Europe so I think the the
owners right now is on Israel and this
next steps
mad Ali Shabani of amaj media thank you
very much uh for joining us here on BBC
News with your Reflections and insights
into the thinking in Iran after this
unprecedented attack Iran says it did
inflict considerable damage it said its
missiles did hit the nativo airbase in
southern Israel Israel admits that yes
indeed they did take a direct hit but
say the damage was minimal so the again
as always Lucy in in war it's the facts
on the ground but it's also the
perception of what what happened on the
ground which tends to drive these
conflicts Le is that there in Jerusalem